.TH PYRENEUS-STYLE 6 "August 13, 2025" "" "C++ Coding Conventions"
.SH NAME
pyreneus-style \- id Software-inspired C++ coding conventions
.SH GENERAL
Use real tabs equal to 4 spaces.
.PP
Use trailing braces everywhere (if, else, functions, structures, typedefs, class definitions):
.nf
if ( x ) {
}

if ( x ) {
} else {
}
.fi
Pad parenthesized expressions with spaces:
.nf
if ( x ) {
}
x = ( y * 0.5f );
.fi
Use precision for floating point values unless a double is explicitly needed:
.nf
float f = 0.5f;
float f = 1.0f;
.fi
Function names start with an upper case letter. In multi-word names, each word starts with an upper case:
.nf
void Function( void );
void ThisFunctionDoesSomething( void );
.fi
Standard function header:
.nf
/*
====================
FunctionName

  Description
====================
*/
.fi
Variable names start with a lower case letter. In multi-word variables, the first word is lower case and each next word is upper case:
.nf
float x;
float maxDistanceFromPlane;
.fi
Typedef, struct, and enum names follow variable naming, but always end with _t.
Enum constants use all upper case characters; multiple words are separated with an underscore:
.nf
enum contact_t {
    CONTACT_NONE,
    CONTACT_EDGE,
    CONTACT_MODELVERTEX,
    CONTACT_TRMVERTEX
};
.fi
Names of recursive functions end with _r.
Defined names use all upper case characters; multiple words are separated with an underscore:
.nf
#define SIDE_FRONT 0
.fi
Use const as much as possible. Examples:
.nf
const int *p;        // pointer to const int
int * const p;       // const pointer to int
const int * const p; // const pointer to const int
.fi
Do not use "int const *p".
.SH CLASSES
Standard class header:
.nf
/*
===============================================================================

Description

===============================================================================
*/
.fi
Class names start with "id" and each successive word starts with an upper case:
.nf
class idVec3;
.fi
Class variables use the same naming convention as variables.
Class methods use the same naming convention as functions.
Indent member names to form readable columns; put the pointer asterisk with the type:
.nf
class idVec3 {
    float        x;
    float        y;
    float        z;
    float        Length( void ) const;
    const float *ToFloatPtr( void ) const;
};
.fi
Order class members as follows:
.IP 1. 4
list of friend classes
.IP 2. 4
public variables
.IP 3. 4
public methods
.IP 4. 4
protected variables
.IP 5. 4
protected methods
.IP 6. 4
private variables
.IP 7. 4
private methods
.PP
Make methods const when they do not modify class variables.
Avoid use of const_cast. When an editable object is required but only const versions are accessible, provide a function that clearly returns an editable version of the object, keeping control of const-ness within the object rather than the caller.
Return const objects unless the typical usage of the object is to change its state (e.g., media objects like idDecls should generally be const; entity types that are commonly mutated may be non-const).
.PP
Function overloading should be avoided in most cases.
Prefer explicitly named functions, for example:
.nf
const idAnim *GetAnimByIndex( int index ) const;
const idAnim *GetAnimByName( const char *name ) const;
const idAnim *GetRandomAnim( float randomDiversity ) const;
.fi
Overloading purely to add a const-accessible variant is acceptable:
.nf
class idAnimatedEntity : public idEntity {
    idAnimator *GetAnimator( void );
    const idAnimator *GetAnimator( void ) const;
};
.fi
For media types that are normally const, avoid operator overloading that would obscure editability; instead, provide clearly named editable accessors:
.nf
class idDeclMD5 : public idDecl {
    const idMD5Anim *GetAnim( animHandle_t handle ) const;
    idMD5Anim *GetEditableAnim( animHandle_t handle );
};
.fi
.SH ID STUDIO NAMES
Naming conventions for UI classes:
.nf
id<name>Dlg      // dialog class
id<name>Ctrl     // dialog control class
id<name>Frm      // frame window
id<name>View     // view window
id<name>         // any other class
.fi
.SH FILE NAMES
Each class should be in a separate source file unless grouping several smaller classes makes sense.
The file name should match the class name without the "id" prefix (preserving upper/lower case).
Example:
.nf
class idWinding;

files:
Winding.cpp
Winding.h
.fi
When a class spans multiple files, use the class name without "id", then an underscore and a subsection name.
Example:
.nf
class idRenderWorld;

files:
RenderWorld_load.cpp
RenderWorld_demo.cpp
RenderWorld_portals.cpp
.fi
When a class is a public virtual interface to a subsystem, place the public interface in a header named after the class without "id".
Place the definition of the implementing class in a header named after the class without "id" and ending with "_local.h", and place the implementation in a .cpp file with the class name without "id".
Example:
.nf
class idRenderWorld;

RenderWorld.h        // public virtual idRenderWorld interface
RenderWorld_local.h  // definition of class idRenderWorldLocal
RenderWorld.cpp      // implementation of idRenderWorldLocal
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
id Software original style guide, reformatted as a classic manpage for Pyreneus.
